### Client Side Security!!!

Anything you have client side!! Is that secure????... Like user token, credential, session/cookie!!! it can be stolen so we'll talk about 5 major point to consider to ensure the data will be bit safer.

**1. Storing Sensitive Information/data on client.(Credentials, API keys, API tokens, Cookie)**
   Always try storing data on server, If you cant do that pleae encrypt the data. Then you can have a settimeout so after some time the token get deleted.
   
   ```js
   const token=generateToken();
   localstorage.setItem('token',token);
   setTimeOut(()=>{
     localstorage.removeItem('token');
   });
   
   ```

**2. Authentication:**
   It is recommended to use JWT/oauth tokens for safety. You should have the token/ session token expiry. You can have MFA (multi factor auth).

**3. Data Integrity:**
   Suppose you are encrypting data and when you reading back you are decrypting. Suppose somehow someone know how to decrypt. So have some extra mechanism with encyption like checksums.

**4. Storage Limit:**
     5-10 mb we do have!! There is storage limits to localstorage. In some cases suppose storage it full then we'll have to compromise on the data. But you can calculate the storage ..how much it is left...How can you store. so data cannot be lost.

   ```js
    function hasEnoughSpace(){
       if('storage' in navigator && 'estimate' in navigator.storage){
            navigator.storage.estimate().then(estimate=>{

                console.log('Usage', (estimate.usage / 1024 / 1024).toFixed(2), 'MB');
                
                console.log('Quota', (estimate.quota / 1024 / 1024).toFixed(2), 'MB');

            });
       }
      else console.log('Storage api does not support on this browser');
      
   }
   ```
   with above function you can easily estimate the storage and avoid potential data loss.

  **Storages:**
  1. LocalStorage
     (5-10mb per domain).
  2. Session Storage
      (5-10mb only)
  3. indexDB
      (50Mb to 100MB)
  4. cookie
      (4Kb to 20Kb).
  5. cache
      (~100 MB)


**5. Session Management.**
   If you are setting up cookies for some reason from client make sure you attached some headers so it cant be extracted easily. (Headers like secure, httponly).
